[soft vocalizing]
* *
[dramatic music]
- Once, long ago,
we lived in the human world.
The Moroi vampires,
who make the rules...
* *
- And the Dhampir Guardians,
sworn to protect
against our enemy,
the Strigoi.
- Undead vampires
who live to kill.
- Now we live
in a world of our own,
one grounded
in elemental magic
and steeped in rules no one's
challenged in centuries...
until now.
* *
- The spark of revolution
can come from anywhere.
Even two unlikely friends.
- And one night
that changed everything.
* *
[soft vocalizing]
[electronic orchestral music]
* *
- [sighs]
I look like a fucking macaroon.
* *
- And now you look
like a princess.
* *
[gasps]
- Ooh, ooh.
Ugh, how do you
even wear this thing?
I just lost a hundred strands.
- Heavy is the head,
thin is the hair.
Rose, if anyone looks
like a macaroon, it's me.
You look beautiful.
- We look beautiful, Lissa,
head to toe.
Let's party.
- To all citizens
of the Dominion,
on this,
the eve of my 200th birthday
and my last as your queen,
I thank you.
You have traveled
far and wide,
leaving the safety
of your provinces
to come to the celebration
here at St. Vladimir's.
We all know the dangers
that lurk outside our gates.
Our Strigoi enemy is strong,
but we are stronger.
And under the protection
of our Dhampir Guardians,
we are safe.
So let us have
one last festivity together,
because after nearly
two centuries as your queen,
the one thing
I assure you I've learned
is how to throw
one hell of a party.
[upbeat electronic music]
* *
- [gasps]
- Victor Dashkov.
My daughters,
Sonya Karp, Mia Karp.
- One Royal Moroi, one non.
And the third?
- Mia.
- The Guardians make us suffer
through this every time.
- It's security protocol.
- It's humiliating.
How do they not know who I am?
- Mia, darling.
Be a sport.
* *
- Non-Royal.
- Not for long.
- * Move now,
this is natural *
* And I need your touch *
* Oh, come the blinding sun *
* I already fled the scene *
* I'm already gone,
there's so much more to see *
* I can feel the night *
- Rose.
- Hmm?
- Behave.
- Always, Alberta.
- Don't encourage her.
- She's a guest
of a Moroi princess.
Let her have some fun.
- Guardians aren't here
to have fun.
* *
- Once my family
greets the Queen,
we can have some fun.
Nice.
- Excuse you.
* *
- What are
the Dragomirs thinking,
letting Lissa invite that girl
everywhere she goes?
A Guardian's place
is at the gates.
- * I'ma make my own way *
[dramatic orchestral music]
* *
- The Dragomirs, Your Majesty.
- [scoffs]
Clarence would introduce
his father to his mother.
How are
my delightful Dragomirs?
- Happy Birthday, Fair Lady.
You don't look a day over 80.
- Andre, my dear,
you cheeky rascal.
And a dreadful liar.
- Happy birthday from me
as well, Your Majesty.
- Princess Vasilissa,
angel to your brother
Andre's devil.
- He is shameless,
Your Majesty.
How should he be punished?
- Being King of the Dominion
will be punishment enough.
* *
Oh, surely,
he'll find something
to cheer him once he's king.
- Now, Your Majesty,
you know there'll have
to be an actual election.
- Ah, a mere formality.
Who would deny me
my pick of successor?
If I say Andre will be king,
then so it shall be.
* *
[cheers and applause]
- Looks like
Mia lost her prince.
- I'm amazed she let him
out of her sight
long enough to lose him.
- [chuckles]
- Where is Andre?
[both moaning]
crowd: * Happy birthday,
dear... *
- Shit, I gotta go.
- Uh-uh.
[both moaning]
- Never leave a girl undone,
Andre,
not even for the Queen.
[distant singing continues]
- It's a pleasure
to meet you...
- Tatiana.
[ominous music]
* *
[twig snaps]
[ravens crowing]
* *
- [growls]
- [grunts]
- Strigoi!
- * Survival of the fittest,
yeah *
* But all up in my business *
* Caught up in calm,
I know you gotta *
* Run before you get it,
yeah *
* One, I love a party *
* Love the way you haunt me *
* Put me where you want me *
* Just one sip,
you won't be sorry *
- Strigoi at the wards.
Guardian support, stat.
- * Love the way
you haunt me *
* Right there
where you want me *
[all grunting]
* *
* Right there
where you want me, ay, ay *
* *
* Pour me whiskey soda,
I cannot be sober *
* One shot and I'm up,
two shots and it's over *
* Show me how you like it *
- [screams]
- * Show me
what you came with *
* I'ma show you guidance *
- [snarls]
- * Bodies on top of bodies *
* Love the way you haunt me *
- Strigoi neutralized.
Back to positions.
* *
- * Love the way you haunt me,
ay, ay, ay *
* Just one sip,
you won't be sorry *
* Ay, ay, ay *
* *
* Run up, run up *
[laughter]
- You know,
I'm pretty sure Andre danced
with every single girl
at that party.
- Poor Mia.
- "Poor Mia" will get
the only thing
she really wants once we marry.
Royal status.
[laughter]
- My son,
the next King of the Dominion.
- I hate to admit it,
but you will make a great king.
- If I can get the factions
to remember we're not enemies,
it'll go a long way
towards peace in the Dominion.
You know, Rose, I get my pick
of Guardian once I'm king.
- Sorry, once I graduate,
Lissa and I will be too busy
exploring the world.
- Yeah, and everyone knows
I want Rose to be my Guardian.
I'm not budging on that.
- What we want
and what we must do
can be
two very different things.
- Maybe, Your Almost Majesty.
But not tonight.
A toast
to having everything I want.
A know-it-all big brother...
[both hiss]
- Kids.
[laughter]
- The most supportive parents
either one of us
could ever hope for,
and Rose,
my best friend for life.
[screaming]
[glass shattering]
[dramatic music]
* *
[dramatic vocalizing]
[somber music]
* *
I don't know
how to say goodbye.
* *
I don't know how any of us
are supposed to go on
without you.
* *
Mom.
Dad.
Andre.
* *
I will love you forever.
I'm ready to go back.
- Are you sure?
- It's time.
[exciting music]
* *
- [grunts]
- Lissa.
- Stop.
- It's all right.
Rose won't harm Lissa.
- She has something.
Show me.
- It's a super dangerous
welcome home gift.
- I love it.
I mean, I'm not 12, but--
- Shut up.
It's fucking adorable.
- [laughs]
[indistinct chatter]
- Who was that guy?
- That was Dimitri,
my new Guardian.
- Not for long.
- No, I know. Don't worry.
You're still gonna be assigned
to me after we graduate.
- Will I?
Maybe when Andre was going
to be king, but now--
- But no one can say no
to me right now.
Not after--
we're just gonna have
to ride it out for a while.
- Right.
We're not gonna let Dimitri
or anything else
get in our way
of our plans for the future.
- He is good-looking, though.
- I didn't notice.
[tender music]
* *
What's this for?
- I'm just...really,
really happy to see you.
* *
- Will Rose Hathaway
be a problem?
- Rose is always a problem.
She's one of our best
Guardian Novices,
but she's a handful.
- The girls have been friends
their entire lives.
I mean, we've spoiled them.
Let them break all the rules.
Even let them be roommates
in the Moroi dorms.
Is it any surprise
Rose would have
certain expectations?
- A Guardian's duty is
to do as they're told.
- With all due respect,
I'm not a nanny.
My job is protection.
- A word that can take
many forms.
[tense music]
* *
- [gasping]
[sighs]
- Oh, that's nice.
* *
- Whoa.
Look who's back from the dead.
Too soon.
- It's nice to see you too,
Jesse.
- So a little birdie told me
you'll be head
of the Dragomir family now.
I hope my father
can count on your vote.
- I don't know, Jesse.
Honestly, the political stuff
was Andre's thing, not mine.
- [scoffs]
* *
- You know,
we Feeders hear a lot.
You're smart to stay out of it.
The politics in this place
have gotten really ugly.
Be careful.
* *
- It's dangerous to wait
too long, Your Majesty.
We need strong leadership now.
I assume you'll name
your successor soon.
I have some thoughts.
- And I have a date
with an old friend.
You're excused, Marie.
- Your Majesty.
- You see what I'm up against?
Instead of mourning the man
who could unite them,
these idiots are all scrambling
for the crown.
- Hmm.
- Enough.
There's work to be done.
You must prepare Lissa
for her new role
as head of the Dragomir family.
- It won't be easy for her.
You know, she was planning
to apply for a dispensation
to study art abroad.
- Those dreams are done.
Lissa must finish her schooling
and take her rightful place
in the Royal Court.
- And Rose?
- When she finishes
her training,
we'll find her a placement
in one of the other provinces.
- She won't like that.
- Moroi come first.
Rose knows that.
She'll do her duty.
[dramatic music]
[soft music]
* *
- Might help if we flicked on
an actual light, right?
- That would damage the paper.
It's a thousand years old.
- Oh, of course.
Not sure it would help anyway.
- You only need to recite
this small passage
for the consecration.
- Recite?
I need to recite Old Moroi
in front of people, tonight?
- Any new head of a family
must be blessed
in the presence
of all the others.
Sorry, it's tradition.
- That's a beautiful yellow
you're wearing.
- Thank you, Sonya.
I really like it too.
[speaking Old Moroi]
[wind whooshing]
* *
All right, who's there?
- Thought you could use
some light.
* *
- And you are?
- New.
* *
I'm Christian Ozera.
- Oh.
- And just to get it
out of the way, no,
I don't know why my parents
chose the ultimate sin
and turned Strigoi.
And since they're dead,
can't ask them.
- So you, what, just hang
around old church archives
waiting for girls
to need a light?
- Or might just have
some questions
about where we go after we die.
* *
- I'm sorry about your parents.
- I'm sorry about yours.
* *
- So, um--
[clears throat]
Do you actually read
this stuff?
- Well, I'm not exactly on top
of anyone's invite list.
I got time. Lots of time.
And you'd be surprised
by the secrets
these dusty records hold.
Plus, Old Moroi really is
kind of...
beautiful.
* *
- I don't think I can do this.
- Say it with me.
- Okay.
- Yeah.
[both speaking Old Moroi]
* *
- You know
we have wards around the gates
to keep us safe from Strigoi.
Lissa doesn't need 24/7 detail.
- Lissa's still at the church.
Royals only.
- So you're just...
having a staring contest
with the air?
- You've studied
perimeter control.
- Yes. Got an A.
- What's around this perimeter?
Don't look.
Just tell me.
- Street clear. Gate secured.
Rooftop empty.
Turrets contained.
- How do you know?
- I've trained for years
to know every inch
of this place.
- Exactly.
You're able to operate
on instinct
because you're
intimately familiar
with your surroundings.
But I'm new here.
Lots to learn in a little time.
So I suppose you could say
I'm having a staring contest
with the street, the gates,
the rooftops, and the turrets.
- You're kind of
a Guardian nerd, aren't you?
It's cool.
Do your thing, perimeter man.
But just know
I plan on taking your job
when I graduate.
- I agree.
Lissa would be
in perfectly good hands
with the best Guardian
at St. Vladimir's Academy.
- Thank you.
- Although that may be hard,
given your ranking.
- I'm number one.
I'm always number one.
- Then perhaps...
you're not as good
at perimeter control
as you think.
- What the fuck?
[tense music]
* *
Hey! How am I fifth?
- You missed class.
It's an automatic ten demerits.
It's very tight, the top five.
- I missed class to welcome
Lissa back to school.
- Find me a Strigoi
who will accept that excuse,
and we'll talk.
* *
- Game on, Hathaway.
- Don't get comfortable, Mace.
- Positions!
Go!
[all shout]
* *
[all shouting]
[bell tolling]
[soft pop music]
* *
- * Look up to the stars *
* High up in the sky *
* *
- [clears throat]
- * Nothing
but the fading light *
* *
* Nothing
but the fading light *
- [speaking Old Moroi]
- * Look up to the stars *
- It's Friday.
It's Challenge Day.
She wants to boost her ranking.
- Come on, already?
I've only gotten to be
number one for, like, a day.
- I'm more comfortable on top.
- [chuckles]
Don't I know it.
[whistle blows]
[all cheering]
[both grunting]
[tense music]
* *
- Come on.
She's got it, she's got it.
[all cheering]
* *
- [laughs]
He's not coming back.
* *
[both grunting]
[buzzer blares]
[all cheering]
- A fucking draw?
- Round two, weapons.
- Nice!
There it is!
[cheering]
[light string music playing]
* *
- I'm not sure
you should be here.
* *
- I'm a Royal.
Can't keep me out.
* *
[soft music]
- I'm surprised
to see you here.
- Yeah, it's been a while
since I've been
to one of these things.
People generally aren't
very, um...
excited to see my face.
- So why did you come?
- To see if you needed
an Old Moroi tutor.
Your heart's in it,
but your pronunciation
is terrible.
- [laughs]
- The Queen is looking for you.
* *
[intense music]
- I'm impressed.
Rose is half Mason's size,
but she's using it
as an advantage.
- Trust me,
she'll do something
to fuck it up.
- Christian Ozera
is a nonstarter.
His parents chose
to turn Strigoi.
- That's not his fault.
- It's a mortal sin.
The last thing you need
is the church against you.
Now, we need
to discuss your schedule.
The other heads of families
will be inviting you
to a series
of less formal events,
although still mandatory,
starting tomorrow.
- I get it--there has to be
an official head of family.
But in just a few months,
Rose and I are out of here.
Why waste your time teaching me
something I'm never gonna use?
- Unfortunately, kiddo,
Andre's death changes
everything for you,
including your plans
for your future.
What we want
and what we must do
are often miles apart.
- What we want
and what we must do
can be
two very different things.
[glass shattering]
- [breathing heavily]
[gasping]
* *
- Lissa, what's wrong?
- [gasps]
[both grunting]
[buzzer blares]
- [laughs]
Here you go.
Some for you and you.
[soft music]
* *
- Anything interesting
out there?
- Just Sonya, the bird lady.
- Be gentle on your sister.
- I am.
Sometimes.
I just don't understand
why she has to be
so weird all the time.
- Sweetie, you need
to give that back to Lissa.
- I do not.
And anyway, I'm wearing it
to the reception tomorrow.
- I'm sorry, Mia.
It's Royals only.
The queen was very insistent.
- So that's it?
One minute,
I'm the future king's fiancée,
and the next, I'm invisible?
I'm keeping the necklace.
- It's a Dragomir
family heirloom.
- And a Dragomir gave it to me.
- And with Andre dead,
you can't keep it.
[tense music]
- I was so close.
Maybe he didn't love me,
and I didn't love him
in that way,
but we were good together.
And I would have made
a great queen.
- There's a lot you can do
without ever sitting
on a throne.
Having the ear of the Queen
can be just as powerful.
And the Queen has big plans
for Lissa.
- Lissa's a twit.
- [chuckles]
- What is up with Sonya
and those fucking birds?
* *
- [breathing heavily]
[door clicks]
- Lissa.
- [gasps]
- What are you doing?
- I just feel like
everything's out of control.
We were all just here together,
and then--
and then there's an accident
that I can barely remember.
And the only thing I know
is that Andre should be here,
not me.
- Shh, shh, shh.
That's just the grief talking.
- [sobbing]
- Shh, it's okay.
[soft music]
But if we're going to sunbathe,
I know where I want to be.
* *
- * Ooh, ooh *
* Ooh, ooh *
* *
- This is the first place
your family took me.
- I remember.
Right after I met you.
Standing all alone
on Family Day.
- You ran straight up to me.
- [laughs tearfully]
- Your clothes were so clean,
I was afraid your parents
wouldn't let you play with me.
[laughing]
I didn't know
what a family was until then.
[breathes deeply]
- You keep asking me
if I'm gonna be okay.
Are you?
* *
- They were everything
a family should be.
Your mum hugged me
every time I saw her,
hello and goodbye.
And your dad made jokes
about my accent.
[laughing]
Andre taught me the difference
between good tequila
and that gasoline Jesse Zeklos
smuggles into parties.
Meanwhile, my mum was off
in parts unknown.
And my dad, well, who knows?
So the answer
to your question...
if I'm okay,
no.
* *
But I will be.
And now,
we get our own chance
to say goodbye,
our own memorial.
- * I'm still a little broken,
but I'm healing *
* Yeah, I'm still reeling *
* I'm not okay *
- Be at peace.
* *
[tense music]
- Thanks, Rose.
I feel better
than I have in a while.
- I know.
I can kind of feel it
coming off of you.
That's weird, right?
- Not that weird.
Feel like you've always been
pretty tuned into me.
- Yeah.
But this feels,
I don't know, different somehow
since you've been back.
- Earlier, when you found me
in the garden,
how did you know I was there?
- I don't know, I just...did.
[birds chirping]
Oh, shit.
Oh, we should get going.
It's one thing to sneak outside
of the wards in the day,
but if we get caught out here
during Strigoi hours,
we're fucked.
- Fine, but I'm driving.
- You're stronger
than you look.
- Just because
I'm not a Guard--
[both grunt]
Ow, shit.
- Are you okay?
- Something's bruised.
Maybe my ego.
- Can you walk?
- Yeah.
[tense music]
Oh, fuck.
I'm sorry, Rose.
- Forget about walking.
We have to run.
* *
- [growling]
- [groans]
- Rose, what's wrong?
- I don't know. I feel sick.
- [shrieking]
- [screams]
- [growling]
[roars]
- [screams]
[both grunting]
- Run!
Go, Lissa!
- I'm not just gonna
leave you here!
- It's my job. Go!
- [screams]
* *
No, Rose!
- [roaring]
- [groaning]
- [growls]
[shrieking]
- [panting]
I don't suppose there's any way
we could keep this
just between us.
[alarm blaring]
[Guardians shouting]
* *
- That kind of risk
was unacceptable at any time.
Now, the future
of the Dragomir family
is in your hands.
- A tiny family with no Andre
in a society
with antiquated rules.
What does it even matter?
- If you think the rules
are antiquated now,
wait till you see what happens
if any of the vipers
jockeying for the crown
gets their way.
Andre's rule
meant change for us.
If the crown falls
to the wrong bloodline,
whatever progress
your brother hoped to achieve
will be impossible.
The Dragomir vote is key
to preventing that.
- Okay.
I'll stay until
the succession is assured.
Then I'll graduate
and get on with my life.
Will that do?
And please tell them
not to be too mad at Rose.
- Lissa,
we are well beyond that.
[tense music]
* *
- No need.
I just got an earful
and then some from Alberta.
Lissa and I aren't allowed
to be roommates anymore.
I should have told you
I was taking Lissa
outside of the wards.
And I should have built in
more time on our return
for unexpected complications.
But I got her back
in one piece.
I made sure she was protected.
They come first.
- Protecting Lissa is my job.
My only role here is to ensure
that nothing happens to her.
What you did
was reckless and impulsive,
no matter how good you are.
Strength doesn't matter.
Style doesn't matter.
Courage doesn't matter.
There's good enough,
and there's gone.
Tonight, you almost got
the person you say
you care about most
in the world killed.
There isn't a rank low enough
on that board
for you right now.
[soft music]
* *
- Hey, Rose.
- Later, Rose.
- Looks like you're slumming it
with the rest of us now.
- * Love it when you blossom,
shit is soft *
* Naked as the truth
when you take it off *
* I don't ever stoop,
stock is through the roof *
* Graduating in a year,
leaving with the troops *
* Man, this ain't no life
anyone can choose *
- You can have that bed
if you like.
The view's nicer.
- * Whoa, yeah, we all souls *
* Down the same road *
* What scares you the most? *
* Been down the longest road *
* Oh, whoa *
* Tell me what
scares you the most *
* Whoa *
* Tell me what
scares you the most *
* Even when
your flesh gets cold *
* You know who to call *
- I wondered if you knew
how to say unicorn
in Old Moroi.
- * Not better off alone,
you're safe with me *
* Don't change on me,
I can take you home *
* You're safe with me,
don't change on me *
* Don't change,
don't change, don't change *
* Been a long road, whoa *
* Yeah, we all souls,
down the same road *
- I think unicorn in Moroi...
is Lissa.
- * Been down
the longest road *
* Oh, whoa *
* Tell me what scares you
the most *
* Oh, whoa *
* Been down the longest road *
* Tell me
what scares you the most *
- Rose.
- How come our mothers,
the same women who leave us
on Academy doorsteps as infants
so they can go back
to being Guardians,
still get to tell us
what to do?
- I wanted to see
if you're okay.
- You didn't get
that many good shots in.
I'll be fine.
- I didn't mean that.
- Mason, I really only have
two uses for you right now,
and I'm not really
in the mood to spar, so...
- Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
Wait a minute, Rose.
Wait a minute.
Hey.
I can't believe
I'm actually saying this.
I'm not here for that now
in this moment.
I thought we could talk.
Thought I could be a friend.
- [laughs]
- Just pretend I'm Lissa, okay?
- Don't laugh.
What would she do now?
- Today, it felt
like the universe
was conspiring against me.
I may have given it
some extra help,
but all I wanted was
to help my best friend
feel better,
and I did.
but I also know
the only way for either of us
to ever feel normal
or whole again
is to leave this place
and go live our lives.
[phone ringing]
[tense music]
Hello.
* *
This is Rose.
- It is a pleasure to meet you,
Novice Hathaway.
- And you as well,
Your Majesty.
- Vasilissa Dragomir
is an important member
of this Dominion.
I also know
she's important to you.
- She is, Your Majesty.
- Perhaps you can tell me why.
- Guardians are raised
to be tough.
It's the only way to survive,
especially as a woman.
And I am tough.
But I have seen what
battle can do to people.
Lissa keeps my heart
in the right place.
She always has a kind word
or a compassionate ear
for anyone who needs it.
She's everything good
and everything right.
And she's...
[soft music]
She's my family.
* *
- Thank you, Novice Hathaway.
You are excused.
A toast to you all
on St. Vladimir's Feast Day.
The last I'll witnesses
as your sovereign.
It is time to name the next.
- Your Majesty,
protocol demands
the announcement be made
in a more formal setting.
- Protocol can kiss
my aging Royal buttocks.
For the next heir
to the throne,
I name Vasilissa Dragomir.
[gasping, whispering]
[dramatic music]
* *
- [breathing heavily]
[electronic orchestral music]
* *
[dog barks]